welcome to slash forward in this film
about
mary shaw we'll be examining the legend
of mary shaw and how she
mary shaw partook to create a
multi-generational revenge curse in
furtherance of the mystery of mary shaw
this is of course in reference to the
film dead silence
if you seek to keep up to date on any
news regarding mary shaw please
subscribe to the channel
let's get to it we open on ancient lore
describing ventriloquists as having
demon bellies and adding an
air of spookiness right off the bat we
then transition to an apartment where
jaime is victim to a plumbing mistake
only possible if someone poured water
directly down the drain while he was
under it like an [ __ ]
since he has failed in his effort to be
done by dinner lisa campaigns hard for
some takeout as she works to convince
him their undersink grab assery is
interrupted by the doorbell it appears a
courier has left a large package for
them
as they tear it open like it's christmas
they find a bitchin ventriloquist dummy
inside
and it reminds lisa of one of james's
old ghost stories
about an old lady who owned dolls prob's
not important
despite this intriguing turn of events
jaime has to head out to get their
dinner
while lisa sets up an epic couples prank
for later it takes a moment to play
pregnant in the mirror
as ladies so often do things then get
strange on us as the sound slowly begins
to drain out of the scene
[Music]
only able to hear her own breath she
senses via mother's intuition that this
strange occurrence
must be the result of the doll but it
turns out to have been the sheets the
whole time and they toss her far enough
to cause some significant internal
bleeding and then drag her back into the
room
jaime arrives home and finds portions of
the apartment out of order
like the water left on the burner and
the large quantity of blood on the floor
but lisa calls out to him and sounds
pretty normal so he humors her by
following her instructions to check out
what's on the bed
possibly expecting some sort of an epic
prank he ultimately finds out that it
was she who was in the bed and not
elsewhere we catch up with jaime again
at the police station where detective
lipton is playing his ass like a
fiddle sarcastically making like he
doesn't believe jaime killed his wife
but with all the evidence apparently
against him and no good alibi
jaime pulls out the big guns in the town
where i'm from
my ventriloquist dummy is a bad home and
it's kind of a local legend and
some people believe that the dummy
brings death to those around them
you got him lipton's not convinced but
is also just
feeling things out right now and he
welcomes jamie to leave of his own
accord
jamie being a bit of a badass hits him
with a choice insult
i'll give me more time to do your job
for you come again i'll give me more
time to do your job for you
who what they'll give me more time to do
your job for you it'll give me more time
to dig a job for you first things first
some basic investigation and hey that's
the lady of legend
and this discovery sends jamie on a
collision course with his home town
which is straight up dead except for his
palatial boyhood home where he is warmly
greeted by his new step-mommy ella
he finds his absentee father in dire
straits but with a new lease on life due
to his recent stroke but jaime's a hard
man
and he rejects the olive branch getting
instead to the point and asking details
about that popular poem about mary shaw
he needs to know why the townsfolk took
it so
seriously but also he has to get to work
and make arrangements for the burial of
his dead wife
in a strange town she's never visited so
he heads to the mortuary where the crazy
crow lady hangs out and he starts
filling out some forms
he then finds a vacancy at a motel just
outside town
here he makes a wise choice to sleep on
top of the covers but then goes
face down into the pillow like an
amateur as he settles in we take a tour
of the ambient noise in the room and it
slowly winds down
jaime is awoken and has a clear vision
of mary shaw herself
but he comes out of it unscathed back at
the funeral home henry walker receives
lisa's body and is aghast to find clear
signs of the town's curse on her face he
then finds marion hiding out in the
crawl space
as she does and runs her off to bed so
we can get back to the task of trying to
make the body presentable
then they have a very beautiful
gravesite service for lisa
attended by jaime and a handful of total
strangers as he unwinds with a sad
walk through the woods he is warned
about the dangers of mary shaw
what's she talking about uh you've
already demonstrated that you know the
whole poem
bro as marion wanders off she mutters
something about burying the dolls as
jaime learns that mary shaw is not
just legend he grabs the doll confirms
its name is billy and takes him for a
drive while billy
side eyes the hell out of him he arrives
at the misty cemetery and finds a series
of headstones with single names
marked with mary's monogram he digs up
billy's plot and sure enough the casket
is empty when the sounds around him stop
jaime doesn't even hesitate tossing
billy into the box and heading back to
his car
he gets spooked by a shadowy figure that
keeps buzzing his windows and then has
an encounter with billy but when he gets
out to scope the sich there's nothing
there he jets back to his room so he can
shower down and emerges to find billy's
back
and lipton's there as well unbeknownst
to him they had been engaged in
sympathetic rooming together
he then presses jaime about why he tried
to bury billy a piece of evidence and a
capital crime
although he didn't care about the doll
before and he's putting his fingerprints
all over it now
so here we learned the story of mary
shaw again
the legend indicating that if you scream
in her presence you lose your tongue
convenience since that's what happened
to lisa so you see it's clear evidence
that it wasn't jaime lipton then
absconds with billy
sands respect for the chain of custody
and bunks down the room next door the
night then passes without incident
the next morning as lipton steps out to
find brunch jaime pops in to acquire
billy and takes him to the funeral home
here he confronts marion assuming her to
be involved in some way but henry steps
in instead
providing all the info he knows about
the real mary shop we flash back to the
town in better days
and discover she was one of the best a
legend in the field of ventriloquism
we're talking jeff dunham levels here
with a belly full of demon
after a show in which she threatened a
child heckler the heckler went missing
and mary died shortly after
she left her will a request that all 100
of her dummies be buried with her and
also that she be made into a doll which
really seems like a request you could
just skip no anyway henry walked in on
that [ __ ] when he was a kid
resulting in a trauma we imagine to be
fairly common to children who are raised
in funeral homes
afterward he always had the sense that a
chicken bone was lodged in his throat
and then also the town suffered a string
of family annihilations but the mystery
remains
who sent the doll to jaime henry let
slip that mary used to live in the
theater
and i don't know if you know but the
jamester is a bit of a badass
so he heads straight out there you can
only access it via boat
when he enters he finds it full of your
typical detritus
and traverses the rickety catwalk
eventually finding himself in mary's
living quarters
as he examines her belongings he comes
across news clippings of a missing child
who interestingly shares his surname
then mary pops out and almost gets him
but he holds strong
meanwhile henry finds billy and resolves
to re-bury him but he's distracted from
this task when he hears marion weeping
in the crawl space again
he goes in to search for her but she's
not there when the door closes he gets
panicky which is a bad spot to be in
given the circumstances
sure enough he lets out a scream and we
see mary claim his tongue as her own
in this time jaime made it back to his
father's house and demands answers in
regards to the whole mary shaw situation
turns out the missing boy was jaime's
great uncle when he went missing they
convicted mary of his murder via mob
justice
forcing her to scream and cutting out
her tongue the subsequent family murders
were believed to be punishment for this
sin which is why jaime got sent away as
a boy it was what they had to do to
protect him
even if it caused irreparable
psychological damage as jaime leaves
determined to end this he is confronted
by lipton he confirms he checked all the
tiny caskets and found
every last one of them to be empty he's
tired of these shenanigans and is now
ready to arrest jaime but a call comes
in from henry claiming to have evidence
that proves what's happening and that
he'd love to reveal it
at the theater and then the line goes
dead too compelled to follow this lead
jaime dips
and runs forcing lipton to follow him to
the theater jaime makes it across the
water and enters the theater following
henry's whispers which guide him toward
mary's living quarters
way more normal and reasonable than
meeting him at the front door despite
arriving well
after and spending some time looking for
a boat not knowing the layout of the
theater or where jaime would be
libton makes it to mary's bedroom first
and then they both hear the whispers so
now they're partners
they find a hidden passage that they
follow back to a cozy little workshop
where they uncover the secret location
of the dolls
plus one extra doll that's actually
michael ashen made up like a marionette
so that's cool
this confirms that mary was prosecuted
accurately and likely got what she
deserved but she doesn't want to hear
that and the curse is still on
so there's the familiar winding down of
the ambient sounds
meaning that it's time to plug up your
pie holes boys the dolls all started
looking at
something but not until they all finish
glancing in that general direction do we
also pan across
in an attempt to follow their gaze it
ends up being a lackadaisical clown
rocking gently and wishing she had some
sweet tea jamie refers to it as mary
shaw and asks her what she wants
she is mostly driven by a desire to
silence people and build the perfect
doll
when he asks her why lisa a fair
question she insists on whispering the
answer to him
when he comes in close she reveals that
he is the last of the ashen line now
that his seed which had been sowed in
lisa's fertile garden has been
extinguished
and then she gives him a playful little
lickety lick before revealing herself
the dolls then start getting all
stretchy about the face
so lipton begins stretching that trigger
finger in an attempt to destroy all the
dolls
since he certainly doesn't have a
hundred shells they set fire to the
expansive display case and then realize
there's one more they have to get to so
they run out but the catwalk dumps him
lipton lets out an instinctual yelp
which puts him on a roller coaster ride
of a tongue removal
jaime then takes the quick route down
but manages to keep his traps shut
eventually emerging from the water and
swimming to shore he races to the
funeral home where he finds marion
weeping in the basement
again and she claims mr ashen took the
doll despite the fact that he can't walk
he arrives home and the sound goes out
again but he finds billy and dumps him
in the fire
repelling mary and her prodigious tongue
as he goes to his father he discovers
him to have been set up like a
ventriloquist dummy
and then comes to the slow realization
that the events that have transpired
were the machinations of ella
mary's perfect doll causing jaime to
scream out in anguish and ultimately
sealing his fate
i have a website set up where you can
support the channel through donations or
merch i'd like to take a moment to give
a huge thanks to my donors memorialized
in the hall of head shots
dead silence is a pretty good 2000s
horror film that feels very much a
product of the time
unlike other entries of the era it does
well to stay away from excessive cgi
keeping it grounded and creating a
genuinely creepy atmosphere
if you enjoyed the video i'd love for
you to become part of the channel by
subscribing
thanks for watching